# 💻 Data Analyst Portfolio

Welcome! I'm Nataly Beltrán Cuenca, a data analyst with strong numerical analysis and logical thinking skills. I created this repository to showcase projects that demonstrate my technical skills in data exploration, cleaning, transformation, analysis, and visualization. I use tools and technologies such as Python, SQL, Power BI, Excel and Tableau.

## 📁 Projects

### 1. Marketing Data Analysis – Python
- **Description:** This project involves cleaning, exploring, transforming, and visualizing a dataset. Data manipulation techniques are applied with Pandas, and customized visualizations are generated with Matplotlib and Seaborn to uncover patterns and insights.The objective of the project is to identify customers with the highest potential conversion rate.
  
- 🔗 [View Project Folder](https://github.com/bcnataly/data-analyst-portfolio-nataly/tree/main/1_Project_Python)

### 2. Human Resources Data Analysis – MySQL and Power BI
- **Description:** This project involves analyzing employee data to gain valuable insights into the demographics, distribution, and compensation of a technology company's workforce. In the exploration, cleansing, transformation, and analysis stages, MySQL is used to apply fundamental operations (CRUD), data definition languages (DDL), and data manipulation languages (DML), as well as aggregation functions and conditional expressions. Power BI is then used for data visualization.

-  🔗 [View Project Folder](https://github.com/bcnataly/data-analyst-portfolio-nataly/tree/main/2_Project_MySQL-PowerBI)

### 3. Financial Data Analysis – Excel
- **Description:** This project involves conducting all stages of exploratory data analysis in Microsoft Excel using functions, formulas, pivot tables, and pivot charts. The objective is to conduct a financial analysis focused on profits generated by agent sales, brands, and product lines.

-  🔗 [View Project Folder](https://github.com/bcnataly/data-analyst-portfolio-nataly/tree/main/3_Project_Excel)

### 4. Sales Data Analysis – Power BI-DAX

- **Description:** This project uses an interactive dashboard to highlight the key drivers of sales performance and the least contributing factors. The stages of data exploration, transformation, analysis, and visualization are applied. The entire project is developed using Microsoft Power BI Desktop, covering topics such as managing relationships, star schema data model structure, combining columns, generating tables and calculated columns, creating measures, filtering data, using time intelligence functions, and designing the dashboard.

-  🔗 [View Project Folder](https://github.com/bcnataly/data-analyst-portfolio-nataly/tree/main/4_Project_PowerBI-DAX)

### 5. DVD Rental Analysis – PostgreSQL and Tableau

- **Description:** This project involves analyzing a dataset from a DVD rental business to understand its financial performance, with a focus on rental transactions and extracting valuable insights. The exploration and analysis stages were conducted in PostgreSQL using Data Manipulation Language (DML), as well as aggregation, grouping, ordering clauses, JOINS, string and window functions, and Common Table Expressions (CTEs). The data visualization stage was developed in Tableau, transforming the queries into an interactive dashboard that highlight key metrics.

-  🔗 [View Project Folder](https://github.com/bcnataly/data-analyst-portfolio-nataly/blob/main/5_Project_PostgreSQL-Tableau/README.md)

  
## 🛠️ Skills

| Category              | Tools and Technologies                        |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Programming           | Python                                        |
| Python Libraries      | Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn                   |
| Databases             | SQL (MySQL, PostgreSQL)                       |
| Spreadsheet Analytics | Excel                                         |
| Visualization         | Power BI, Tableau                             | 
| Data Modeling & DAX   | DAX (Power BI)                                |
| Development Platform  | Google Colaboratory                           |
| Documentation         | English                                       |

## 📬 Contact

- **Linkedin:** www.linkedin.com/in/nataly-beltran-cuenca-data-analytics/
- **GitHub:** bcnataly


